feat: permission delegation on aws (#726)
meshcloud/meshcloud-docs: docs/meshstack.building-blocks.aws-reference-architecture.md

---
id: meshstack.building-blocks.permission-delegation-aws
title: Permission Delegation on AWS
---

Building blocks are often managing resources in tenants that are owned by application teams.
As with any high privileged access, this access needs to be handled with great care.

> 

Reviewer: Building blocks are often managing resources in tenants that are owned by application teams. Such resource management might require privileged access and needs to be handled with great care.

Managing permissions to AWS accounts are always managed within the individual account, whereas in other platforms permissions can be inherited via a resource hierarchy. 
When providing a centralised service to application teams, you therefore have to design permission delegation explicitly.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AWS permissions are granted using resource-based policy or cross-account IAM role that includes trust policy allowing one AWS account to access to resources in another account by assuming cross account role. We this document we describe the latter option.
```

```mermaid
graph LR

start((start))
start --> trust

trust{Can cloud foundation team establish <br> trust in target accounts?}
trust -- Yes --> cfManagesPermissions[building block establishes trust]
trust -- No --> userPermissionSetup[users establish trust]

cfManagesPermissions --> teams
userPermissionSetup[user manages permissions] --> credentials

teams{Who offers the main building block?}
teams -- cloud foundation team --> mainbb[cloud foundation team manages <br> permissions within main building block]
teams -- another platform team --> sidecarbb[cloud foundation team offers sidecare building block <br> that manages permissions for main building block]

sidecarbb --> credentials
mainbb --> credentials

credentials{Are long-lived credentials allowed?}
credentials -- No --> dedicatedRunners[set up dedicated self-hosted runners <br> with instance profiles]
credentials -- Yes --> sharedRunner[use shared runner and pass credentials <br> as static inputs to the building block] 
```

## Reference Architectures

The decision trees implies six possible combinations, each with a different reference architecture.

> The diagrams in this section depict the three combinations where no long lived secrets are allowed fo an example building block "Managed VPC".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagrams in this section depict the three combinations where no long lived secrets are allowed for a building block "Managed VPC" in this example.
```

If long lived secrets are allowed, you can simplify the terraform runner setup, the rest stays the same.

> ### Cloud Foundation Team has the permission to manage trust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cloud Foundation Team has the permission to manage cross-account trust
```

2. the cloud foundation team offers the "Managed VPC" building block
3. no long lived secrets are allowed

![Reference Architecture for building block offered by cloud foundation team when no long lived secrets are allowed and the cloud foundation team has permission to establish trust](assets/building-blocks/cf-nocred-trust.png)

#### Another Team offers main building block

To summarize, in this reference architecture

1. the cloud foundation team has the permission to establish trust
2. a dedicated networking team offers the "Managed VPC" building block
3. no long lived secrets are allowed

![Reference Architecture for building block offered by dedicated team when no long lived secrets are allowed and the cloud foundation team has permission to establish trust](assets/building-blocks/ded-nocred-trust.png)

### Cloud Foundation Team does not have the permission to manage trust

To summarize, in this reference architecture

1. the cloud foundation team does not have the permission to establish trust
2. either the cloud foundation team or a dedicated networking team offers the "Managed VPC" building block
3. no long lived secrets are allowed

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Product/tenant owner reviews and provides the required cross-account trust
```
